---
layout: post
title:  mediocrity
date:   2019-03-20 13:55:01 +0800
categories: 英语
tag: Words
---
* content
{:toc}


# 


## Words
---
* deprive, the baby cried as his friend deprived him of the toy.
* definitive, the law is definitive; we now know exactly what it means.
* inert, the rock structure is inert, and has not moved for thousands of years.
* patrol, the patrol searched around for hidden enemies.
* vapor, water turns into vapor when we boil it.
* tardiness, tardiness is a bad habit, so learn to be on time.
* sway, the reeds sway back and forth in the wind.
* vessel, these small vessels catch fish and bring them back to port.
* cacti, some cacti stand in the desert.
* salinity, the salinity of sea water varies depending on the presence of minerals.
* colloquial, they studied mostly exam vocabulary, but they were unfamiliar with colloquial words like "wow".
* itinerant, our regional staff includes twenty itinerant salesmen.
* supplant, the car has supplanted the horse-drawn carriage.
* consternation, my car wouldn't start thing morning.
* chore, she was so happy after finishing her chores.
* sequester, the poor black sheep is sequestered from others because of its different color.
* submerge, the car was almost submerged by the floodwater.
* conscientious, James seems like a conscientious, hard-working student.
* deplete, the phone's electricity has been depleted after being used for hours.
* anthem, these sports fans are singing their national anthem before the match.
* portend, what does the future portend? My crystal ball will tell you.
* lumber, the old bus lumbered up the hill.
* pollen, pollen carried by bees is responsible for the reproduction of flowers.
* auxiliary, we have an auxiliary generator to deal with sudden black-outs.
