---
layout: post
title:  cipher
date:   2019-03-18 09:55:01 +0800
categories: 英语
tag: Words
---
* content
{:toc}



# cipher
---
On a hot summer's day the trees along this path provide welcome shade.

## Words
* rekindle, I used the match to rekindle the fire.
* Suspender, The boy in a white tank top is pulling on his suspenders.
* Judicious, After the lawyer's defense, the judge finally delivered his judicious verdict.
* Rip, Oh, no! I ripped both the red envelop and the money.
* Excel, The red man excels in running.
* Lettuce, Lettuve is a plant with large grren leaves.
* The sloth loves his tree because he is an arboreal animal.
* Cyclone, The lower air pressure in this area increases the possibility of cyclones forming.
* Lunar eclipse, I used my camera to take a picture of the lunar eclipse last night.
* clam, The steamed clams taste absolutely delicious.
* Celebrated, She is a celebrated actress.
* Disposition, He has an unhealthy disposition, he gets angry so easily.
* Real estate, Real estate is a home as well as an investment.
* Notoriously, The celebrity si notoriously known for tax evasion.
* Elixer, the magic elixer will make you invisible.
* Gulp, she drank up a cup of milk in one gulp.
* Dazzling, the early morning light created a dazzling scene in the forest.
* Accordion, Bob has mastered the accordion after 10 years of playing.
* Catalyze, the addition of the blue solution serve to catalyze the reaction between the oil and soap.
* Pulp, I squezze the fruit's pulp into the juice.
* Viscous, the viscous honey dripped down slowly.
* Chivalry, One peiciple of chivalry is to protect the old and the young.

## reading

It was the best of times; it was the worst of times.

It was the age of wisdom; it was the age of foolishness.

It was the epoch of belief; it was the epoch of incredulity.

It was the season of Light; it was the season of Darkness.

It was the spring of hope; it was the winter of despair.

We had everything before us; we had nothing before us.

We were all going direct to Heaven, we were all going direct the other way -

in short, the period was so far like the present period, that some of its noisiest authorities insisted on its being received, for good or for evil, in the superlative degree of comparison only.

\<A tale of Two Cities> —Charles Dickens